# Route Diversity in Urban Environements

Facing the climate urgency and the impact of global warming, limiting our emissions has become one of the main challenges of our societies. The impact of transportation, especially of motorised vehicles, on carbon emissions and air quality is not to prove anymore. The decreasing of our impact on emissions can only be achieve with a better understanding of human mobility in general, especially individual behaviors on road networks and recurring patterns of our societies and by deepening our comprehension of the routing algorithms and their impact on road usage (https://doi.org/10.1038/s43588-023-00469-4). The alternative routing strategies aim to diversify the routes taken by drivers, and, consequently, to reduce the potential congestion and the associated emissions. However, to build more efficient alternative routing algorithms, studying the route diversity in cities is necessary to understand how to adapt them to each road network. In our work, we develop a procedure to assess the existing diversification of paths in urban environments and the factors impacting it. In particular, we studied the impact of distance on the set of paths between an origin and a destination points. We also evaluated how the topology of a city changes the potential paths diversification in an urban environment.

The code provided in this repository allows to reproduce the experiments and the results obtained in the thesis. 

The necessary data are given, ready to use, in the corresponding folder, except the road networks that are provided zipped. The code is composed by Python files that gathers all the functions necessary for each step of the procedure (from sampling to paths generation algorithms), and, by Jupyter notebooks, in which the functions are called and the paths files generated. The csv files in the nb_paths folder contains the data  generated during our experiments and used in the results part of the thesis. 
